hey what's up I got a question here on
patreon asking me what books I would
recommend for someone who really has no
background in European philosophy they
want to start reading books that give
them an education on philosophy and I
take that kind of question very
seriously I took that kind of question
seriously before I ever lived in Asia
back when I was living in Canada and you
know you get another perspective on it
when you've asked when you've been asked
that question we've answered that sort
of question living in Cambodia Laos
Southeast Asia generally what have you
um it's a serious question and I think
you know it's really wrong to take it
lightly and just say oh here's my
favorite book that I read when I was 18
years old I wouldn't do that to a
Cambodian I wouldn't do that to a
Canadian either philosophy in the
Western tradition it's you know it's
such a bizarrely overrated and
misunderstood category of books you know
why are some of these books in the same
shell together
why are Aristotle and Plato sharing a
shelf with Hegel and Emmanuel Kant
you know it's very very difficult to
talk to someone today and explain to
them why you know the dispute between
Immanuel Kant and Sir Isaac Newton over
the interpretation of the Bible why that
still matters why that's still important
because it's not it's not important most
people have completely forgotten the the
religious philosophy of Sir Isaac Newton
during his life he wasn't just a
scientist he was also famous as a
religious figure and he had what I would
consider somewhat bizarre and eccentric
views on the reinterpretation of the
Bible that were hugely hugely
influential at the time and that was
what Immanuel Kant was responding to in
the critique of Pure Reason
and now you know universities around the
world are taking Immanuel Kant's
critique of Pure Reason and trying to
turn it into something that's important
to teach to every eighteen-year-old at
every University in Europe and that's a
lie it's not important it's not
meaningful and you know when I say it's
a lie I think you can compare it to
other philosophies that have come and
gone that have had you know some
reasonable standing some reasonable
influence in society
just to keep this brief you can look at
Buddhist philosophy it is very easy to
look at the influence Buddhism has had
in Thailand in Sri Lanka and say ok
Buddhism is a philosophy that still
really matters today for better and for
worse believe me I'm not saying that
everything of a Buddhist philosophy is
wonderful there are lots of things I
could tell you about Buddhist philosophy
that are terrible it's not hard for me
to do um
[Music]
it's very difficult to look at just 19th
century Greek philosophy sir ha ha
little slip there 19th century German
philosophy and say that now you know the
ancient Greeks I do think are still
worth studying worth reading we just
recently had on on you now a heated
debate that went on for at least 20
minutes but was live streaming with a
woman who was a teacher of philosophy
shout out to Emma
thanks for coming by Emma you know
talking about the intellectual legacy of
Plato
in contrast Aristotle and contrast
acidities and Clinton Condors to
Herodotus but you know I mean first of
all I guess I just pause say some people
would dispute my even including lucidity
Xander artists in the category of
philosophy because they have some much
more narrow view of what's what
philosophy is and why it matters for
most readers I mean I'm not even getting
to or how I define philosophy or why I
think philosophy is important in the
world I think that's fat us and
counterproductive to be blunt if people
are asking you about what they need to
know what they could learn from what why
they should read philosophy really um
you know the most useful example would
be something like Herodotus why is
Herodotus interesting or rewarding for
people to read well if you're interested
in the culture of ancient Greece if
you're interested in contrasting the way
one ancient society coped with the
values of the religious views of the
cosmology of an ancient society
Herodotus provides so much rich material
for reflecting on that culture and how
it understood the world you know good
and bad I mean Herodotus you know some
of the most shocking material is only a
few sentences long the excuses for human
sacrifice
you know and wadis just says oh but you
shouldn't
sighs these people for carrying out
these human sacrifice that was their
custom in the attitude towards custom
and tradition and religion and you know
the even the role that philosophy played
in that society the attitudes towards
kingship and slavery and democracy that
stuff is fascinating but it's only
fascinating if you're interested in a
kind of you know cultural anthropology
you're interested in looking at how a
totally alien culture cope with those
things it's not interesting in the way
that a scientific discovery is
interesting not at all
and I think part of what goes on in the
modern Western world is an attempt to
misrepresent the history of philosophy
as if it really did resemble the history
of Sciences if it presented you with a
series of stages and that each stage
discovered something that resulted in
irreversible progress as not true at all
I mean you know the Greeks had one set
of debates about the nature of democracy
and politics and then for hundreds of
years after that different societies had
different debates including China and
India you know huge parts of the world
that are normally just omitted from the
way we teach and study with philosophy
and politics etc um my point here is
when an average person writes to me as
this guy did and says you know he has no
background in philosophy
what books can I recommend I'm not
someone who would in a shallow or
relaxed way even recommend books that I
enjoyed myself books that were important
to me personally I feel you know on the
contrary that I can't recommend this
stuff that it's as bizarre as if you
went to Cambodia and you met someone in
Cambodia who had seen the magazine rack
in a store in a fancy Western store and
saw Cosmopolitan magazine Vogue magazine
a whole series of fashion magazines with
you know beautiful women images of
wealth and opulence and leisure someone
said you look I have no education in
fashion I need what books do you
recommend for me to study so I can
prepare myself to understand this
important genre of literature
um you know I think you'd have to start
by explaining the person look this stuff
is important and meaningful to an
incredibly small number of people the
debates about you know fashion it's
important to some people but this is
important and meaningful to a very very
small number of people so probably you
don't want to do this probably don't
want to put in the time on this the
difference is that with philosophy the
glitt'ring magazine rack what draws
people to it is just the inculcated
notion that this is the best and most
important thing that Western
civilization has to offer
that that this is the meaning of life
itself being presented to you and you
know that motivates many people to sit
down and try to convince themselves that
Immanuel Kant is meaningful and
important to their lives today and it's
not it's garbage and there is an
interesting type of work to do in
reconstructing why was this once
important and meaningful to people why
was it that at the time there was this
debate with this famous scientist you
know Sir Isaac Newton and this response
really meant something but I mean you
know I can't recommend that a Cambodian
puts in the hours to to you know become
familiar with that and I can't recommend
that a Canadian does either from my
perspective you know the vast corpus of
you know Western philosophy is you know
it's it's garbage they has no you know
and sadly entry in an attempt to make
that garbage seem meaningful and
important to young people today in
universities there there's a lot of
intellectually dishonest
you know misleading half-truths and
fraud that goes on I remember you know
you started just you have one example
real quick I remember trying to talk
about racism within Immanuel Kant
and you know the response you get from
people are supposedly you know
respectable university professors any of
these issues one side with slavery
within Hegel something here racism
within Hegel or what have you you know
stuff is all junk anyway Hegel knew
nothing about China or India what he
wrote about
China and India's garbage why can't we
just a minute move on the fact the
response you get from the establishment
is of refusing to allow you to admit
that Immanuel Kant was racist that
already shows how broken the whole
system is you know if your approach to
ancient Greece is to try to make ancient
Greece seem like paradise
then your whole educational system is
broken if you can appreciate what was
right and what was wrong with if you can
look back on that and just look at it as
an alien culture in the same way that I
look back on ancient India and just said
okay well I'm interested in this culture
I'm interested in this civilization I'm
not here to glorify it and not here to
make excuses for it in ancient India
there were some really interesting
philosophical debates and those are
preserved in the Buddhist Canon and in
in the Pali Canon you know in the same
way you can look back in ancient Greece
and whether you're looking at debates on
the nature of slavery or debates on
whether the world was flat or shaped
like a drum there interesting debates
that happened but you know this this is
really better described as a form of
cultural studies than it is true
philosophy and even when you're talking
about you know the 19th century in
Europe tell me what just a couple of
centuries ago you tend to be looking at
debates that are so heavily burdened
with it but with religious culture with
Christianity that they've already become
very alien and very foreign to us and
you know if we're going to talk about
Marxism it's even worse who with a
straight face today can sit down with a
classroom of students in Canada or in
Cambodia and say okay we're gonna get
heavily into you know the fine
differences between the the various
schools of thought and Marxism that just
a short time ago
justified millions of people killing
each other you know none of that stuff
is meaningful today so that's about it
guys sorry this video was already longer
than I wanted to be but this is my long
answer to why I'm not just casually
recommending you a bunch of books to
read but about philosophy you know if
there is one parallel
I remember just reading an article about
the state of books on the history of
modern medical science and it admitted
that you know this is some that isn't
really taught in universities
that experts aren't comfortable talking
about and you know most of the books
sort of have to open with warning saying
this is a lot more depressing than you
think it's gonna be yes it's pretty easy
to find a glorified glamorized
propaganda version of the history of
modern medical science sort of all good
news
but the real history of medical science
you know going back whatever a thousand
years or more is full of these you know
unbelievable harrowing stories of people
dying long slow painful deaths because
of a misunderstanding because of an
error because of a fad theory the you
know the history of medical science was
centuries and centuries of unbelievable
error that today has no relevance to
what we do in modern medicine at all and
then you know sort of in a few decades
if this crystallization of scientific
knowledge
you know indeed and you know the
invention of soap is you know of modern
cheap soap the science of making cheap
those 1861 before that there were other
ways making soap you know the emergence
of modern concepts of Hygiene and the
germ theory of disease and you know the
invention of the microscope there's the
sudden positive uplifting story at the
very end but even that has its horror
stories within it but was just interest
remember when I was reading that article
saying look it's actually really hard
for people in medical science to be
honest with themselves about the history
of medical science or why it matters
today or in a sense why so little of it
matters day why the vast majority that
history is just being forgotten and
ignored we're in the same situation when
we look back at the history of what we
call philosophy and it's very debatable
what should and what should not be
called philosophy but when we look back
at that I think we have to admit whether
it's religious philosophy you know when
all the vast majority of European
philosophy was was tied to religion and
the atheist philosophy is also tied to
religion because it's actively critique
critiquing and attacking those guys
whether you're looking at religious
philosophy or Marxist philosophy it's
very very hard to package this stuff as
being socially salient and meaningful to
people's lives today and it's a shame
that so much of Western
anemia is engaged in a kind of scam to
produce exactly the kind of packaging